# Code Validator

---

## Overview

This file contains information about the approach to solve problem and instructions to run the code.

## Approach

1. **User Input**: Users provide their HTML and CSS code snippets via input fields in the web interface.

2. **Sending Code to Server**: Upon clicking the "Validate Code" button, the HTML and CSS code is sent to the server using Axios, a promise-based HTTP client for the browser and Node.js.

3. **Server-side Validation**: The server receives the HTML and CSS code and performs validation tasks. For HTML code validation, the Cheerio library is used, allowing the server to treat HTML code as if it were running in a browser.

4. **Validation Process**: The server iterates through each validation task, checking for compliance with the specified criteria one by one.

5. **Feedback Generation**: Feedback messages are generated based on the validation results. Each validation task corresponds to specific feedback criteria, and the server appends feedback messages to a response string.

6. **CSS Validation**: For CSS code validation, regular expressions (regex) are utilized to check if the CSS code contains specific patterns or rules.

## Setup Instructions

**Prerequisites:** Ensure Node.js and Git are installed on your machine.

1. **Clone Repository**: Use Git to clone the repository to your local machine by running the following command:
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/rishikumrawat02/Code-Validator-.git
    ```

2. **Navigate to Frontend Folder**: Navigate to the "Frontend" folder and open the "index.html" file in a web browser.

3. **Start Server**: Open a terminal, navigate to the root folder of the cloned repository, and run the command:
    ```
    npm run dev
    ```
    or
    ```
    npm start
    ```
    You should see a message indicating that the server is running on a specific port.

4. **Access Validator**: Open a web browser and go to the tab where the "index.html" file is opened. You can now use the Code Validator tool to validate HTML and CSS code snippets.

## Running the Validator

1. **Input Code**: Enter your HTML code in the HTML input box and your CSS code in the CSS input box.

2. **Validate Code**: Click the "Validate Code" button to initiate the validation process.

3. **View Feedback**: The feedback generated by the validator will appear in the output box on the right side of the interface.




